When we are leading data science initiatives,
it is critical for us to approach communication with stakeholders in
a way most effective towards achieving our communication objectives.
To this end, I will introduce two communication frameworks that I have
found helpful in communicating about data science projects to executives,
other business leaders, and stakeholders throughout the company.
The first of these is Barbara Minto's pyramid principle.
The pyramid principle name comes from the idea that structuring
your ideas with supporting information follows logic that resembles a pyramid.
In its simplest form,
the pyramid principle has you state
your ultimate conclusion as supported by several ideas or recommendations,
each of which itself is supported by several facts,
are supporting points of logic.
The pyramid principle is particularly appealing for
communicating with executive leaders who
tend to have shorter attention spans and therefore
must be given the most important information first.
The second framework I have found helpful in
communicating about data science initiatives is J.D.
Schramm's seven part formula for storytelling
success in presentations and business meetings.
Part 1 is parachute in, don't preamble.
Get to the point.
Deliver the action first.
Part 2, is choose first and final words carefully.
The beginning and ending of a story are the most memorable.
So be intentional about how you craft these parts of the story.
Part 3 is, follow the Goldilocks theory of details.
Focus on providing just the right amount of detail,
lest you leave your audience either bored or under-informed.
Part four; focus your delivery on one person with one thought.
In the nervous moments of a presentation,
try to maintain connections with individuals in
the room through eye contact and deliberate speaking.
Part 5 is, consider the power of poetry.
Carefully select the words you intend to use and
arrange them intentionally to carry the greatest amount of meaning.
Part 6, use silence for impact and emphasis.
Intentional silence can be uncomfortable for a speaker,
but it serves as a powerful aid toward driving home a point you wish to emphasize.
Finally, part 7, know your AIM,
your audience, intent, and message.
At all times throughout a presentation,
you must remain mindful of your AIM,
your audience, your intent, and your message.
One of the biggest challenges of data science is communicating with
stakeholders who may not be as comfortable with technical concepts as you are.
Minto's pyramid principle and Schramm's seven-part framework for storytelling
provide guidance towards becoming
unexceptional data science storyteller and communicator.